>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay,
I wanna talk about arrays again.
Because they are important,
at least in the context of this.
We're talking about collections now.
So when you declare a set of arrays, you
can declare an array of integers in this
case, we're declaring it
with five elements and
we've just set all of those
elements to the empty value.
We could set those values individually.
We can get the value for
a value that we haven't set,
which just results in a zero because
that's the default value of int.
And then we can try to get something
outside the bounds of that array,
which would throw an index
out of range exception.
So arrays,
as I mentioned earlier are fixed.
They're fixed length, you don't add and
remove from them like
you do in JavaScript.
That just isn't a thing.
So once you declare them, they cannot
be changed, they cannot be resized,
you have to create a new array
if you need more space, and
you can't remove or add elements.
So early on in .NET Days,
there were collection types that
kind of dealt with that thing.
I'm not gonna go over these,
because, in practice,
these aren't used anymore unless
you're dealing with really old code.
But you could essentially have a list
where it essentially you can add or
remove things from this list.
Problem is that these weren't
constrained for any particular type.
So an array list could exist where you
added a one, excuse me, an integer.
An array list could exist where you could
add an integer and then the next line,
add a string and there was no type safety.
There's nothing behind that to prevent
that from being from occurring.
So I want to talk about the generic
collection type called IEnumerable <T>.
IEnumerable<T> is one of the most
important constructs inside
of the language, and it's very simple.
It essentially says that it
is a collection of things.
An array of objects
implements IEnumerable <T>.
An array of ints is an IEnumerable<int>,
okay?
And it basically says, hey,
we can do things with this collection.
We can iterate over them, and
that includes doing things like foreach.
Remember, I mentioned the foreach loop,
and I mentioned that we use it a ton in
the real world, at least, I certainly do.
So we can spin through each of these
items and then write them to the console.
It's also known IEnumerables in especially
functional Programming languages are also
referred to as sequences, but I just refer
to them in this context as IEnumerables.
Something that you should know
about IEnumerables is that as they
are being created,
they are not always accessed right away.
So they may not actually run until you
actually start spinning through and
requesting items from them.
This will become really important.
It's called lazy evaluation.
And I just want you to put
a pin in that term and
think about it as we talk
about link a little bit later.
You can define what's
called an iterator method.
This is a rather advanced thing to
do because there are programming,
there are performance, and there are kind
of semantic implications to doing this.
But what you can do is you can define
a method as returning IEnumerable and
then use the yield keyword to
actually start yielding back or
returning back items
inside that IEnumerable.
This is really powerful and really cool.
A little bit outside
the scope of this course,
I would recommend that as you learn more
about link, it'll start to click more.
And there's documentation here that
really talks about what's going on with
yield under the hood,
because it's actually fairly complex.
So it's a good thing to know, but
not really important for right now.
Put a pin in it just a little bit later.